[JS] Update Resilience Documentation (#1180)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs-js/guides/how-to-add-resilience.mdx

### Timeout

The timeout middleware is very simple and based on the `Promise.race()` method, therefore no additional library is used.
You can create a timeout middleware with the `timeout()` function.
Per default, a timeout of 10 seconds is used, but you can change the values on demand:

```ts
import { timeout } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

// Three seconds timeout
myApi
  .getAll()
  .middleware([timeout(3000)])
  .execute(myDestination);
```

The timeout should be the first entry in your list of middlewares.

### Circuit Breaker

The SAP Cloud SDK offers a circuit breaker middleware.
The implementation uses the [opossum](https://nodeshift.dev/opossum/) circuit breaker.
You can create a circuit breaker middleware in the following way:

```ts
import { circuitBreaker } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

myApi.getAll().middleware([circuitBreaker()]).execute(myDestination);
```

The circuit breaker middleware should be after the timeout in the list of middlewares.
The circuit breaker uses meaningful default values suggested by `opossum`:

> - Rolling count timeout: 10 seconds.

Reviewer: [req] A period is not needed at the end of each point

- Volume threshold: 10.
- Error threshold percentage: 50%.
- Reset timeout: 30 seconds.

These numbers mean the following:

- The circuit breaker records all requests for a duration of 10 seconds.

> - If in this time window 10 or more requests are recorded the error threshold is calculated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If in this time window, 10 or more requests are recorded, the error threshold is calculated.
```

> - If 50% or more of the requests in the time window fail, the circuit breaker opens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If 50% or more of the requests in this time window fail, the circuit breaker opens.
```

>   From this point in time all requests to the target system are blocked directly and not executed anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  From this point in time, all requests to the target system are blocked directly and not executed anymore.
```

> - After a reset time of 30 seconds the circuit breaker will go to the half-open state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After a reset time of 30 seconds, the circuit breaker will go to the half-open state.
```

  This means the next request will go through as a test.
  - If it is successful, the circuit breaker will open.
  - If it fails, the circuit breaker will close again.

> Note that requests with `HTTP` status 4XX do not count as failed, because they do not indicate an unhealthy system.

Reviewer: [req] [Use code font](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk/blob/main/STYLEGUIDE.md#use-code-font)

Also, maybe a note admonition?

A circuit breaker needs to record all requests across users for a certain time window.
This state is stored in central circuit breaker instances.
Each target system and tenant is represented by a separate circuit breaker instance.

### Retries

Another approach to add resilience to your application is to retry failed requests.

> The SAP Cloud SDK offers a retry middleware based on the [async-retry](https://www.npmjs.com/package/async-retry) library.

Reviewer: [pp] I would skip the 1 line. Also not iterate that SDK offers retry middleware.

However, this middleware should be used with caution, because it is often mitigating a problem that should be solved properly.
Also, if something fails consistently, it does not help to press the same button multiple times.
You should consider some rules for adding retries:

- The error should be the exception, not the default.
- The error should happen randomly so a second call has a high likelihood of returning something.
- The source of the error is out of your domain to fix.

> You create a retry middleware using the `retry()` function which will add three retries per default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a retry middleware using the `retry()` function, which adds 3 retries by default.
```

You can change the number in the following way:

```ts
import { retry } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

// Four retries
myApi
  .getAll()
  .middleware([retry(4)])
  .execute(myDestination);
```

The retry middleware uses meaningful default values:

- Number of retires: 3.

> - Exponential grow for waiting time using a base of 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Exponential growth for waiting time using a base of 2.
```

- Initial waiting time of 1 second.
- Random factor on waiting time between 1 and 2.

This means the maximum waiting times between the three retries are 2, 4, and 8 seconds.
The retry middleware should be the last entry in the list of resilience middlewares.
This ensures the retry is executed in all failure cases.

## Remarks on Custom Implementations

> One central idea to include resilience using a middleware concept is that you can implement your own logic in case the provided one does not fit your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One central idea to include resilience using a middleware concept is that you can implement your logic in case the provided one does not fit your needs.
```

Note that the concept of resilience is not trivial, and you should develop and test your implementation thoroughly:

> - You should keep the order of your middlewares in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You should keep the order of middlewares in mind.
```

  A retry should be at the end and a timeout or cache implementation at the very beginning.
- You should filter certain errors from a retry and circuit breaker.

>   For example a 401 or 403 response will not magically work if you do a retry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, a `401` or `403` response will not magically work if you do a retry.
```

> - If your middleware adds shared state between requests, e.g. a circuit breaker, you must consider isolation between customers in a multi-tenant situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the middleware adds shared state between requests, e.g. a circuit breaker, you must consider isolation between customers in a multi-tenant situation.
```

> - Align the parameters of your middlewares if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Align the parameters of the middlewares if necessary.
```

avoid your

>   Assume your system needs protection from a circuit breaker, and you want to use a retry to execute the request after system recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Assume the system needs protection from a circuit breaker, and you want to use a retry to execute the request after system recovery.
```

If you do not specify any options the method will return a timeout and circuit breaker:

```ts
import { resilience } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

const [timeout, circuitBreaker] = resilience();
```

You can pass very basic options to adjust the created middlewares:

```ts
const [timeout, circuitBreaker, retry] = resilience({ retry: true });

type ResilienceOptions = {
  timeout?: boolean | number; // default is true with 10 seconds timeout. A number indicates the timeout in milliseconds.
  circuitBreaker?: boolean; // default is true.
  retry?: boolean | number; // default is false. A number indicates the number of retries.
};
```

You find the details on each part in the dedicated sections below.
You apply the resilience by adding it to your request as discussed in the [middleware documentation](../features/middleware):

```ts
import { executeHttpRequest } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/http-client';
import { myService } from './generated-client';

executeHttpRequest(myDestination, { middleware: resilience() });

const { myApi } = myService();
myApi.getAll().middleware(resilience()).execute(myDestination);
```

> To use the `resilience()` function is the recommended way to build the resilience related middleware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `resilience()` function is the recommended way to build resilience-related middleware, it ensures the correct order of middlewares.
```

> Using this method ensure the correct order of middlewares.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

### Timeout

> The timeout middleware is very simple and based on `Promise.race()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The timeout middleware is very simple and based on the `Promise.race()` method, therefore no additional library is used.
```

> So no additional library is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

You can create a timeout middleware with the `timeout()` function.

> Per default a timeout of 10 seconds is used, but you can set values to change the value:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Per default, a timeout of 10 seconds is used, but you can change the values on demand:
```

```ts
import { timeout } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

// Three seconds timeout
myApi
  .getAll()
  .middleware([timeout(3000)])
  .execute(myDestination);
```

The timeout should be the first entry in your list of middlewares.

### Circuit Breaker

The SAP Cloud SDK offers a circuit breaker middleware.
The implementation uses the [opossum](https://nodeshift.dev/opossum/) circuit breaker.
You can create a circuit breaker middleware in the following way:

```ts
import { circuitBreaker } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

myApi.getAll().middleware([circuitBreaker()]).execute(myDestination);
```

The circuit breaker middleware should be after the timeout in the list of middlewares.
The circuit breaker uses meaningful default values suggested by `opossum`:

- Rolling count timeout: 10 seconds.
- Volume threshold: 10.
- Error threshold percentage: 50%.
- Reset timeout: 30 seconds.

These numbers mean the following:

> - The circuit breaker records all request for a duration of 10 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The circuit breaker records all requests for a duration of 10 seconds.
```

- If in this time window 10 or more requests are recorded the error threshold is calculated.
- If 50% or more of the requests in the time window fail, the circuit breaker opens.
  From this point in time all requests to the target system are blocked directly and not executed anymore.

> - After a reset time of 30 seconds the circuit breaker will go to the state half open.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- After a reset time of 30 seconds the circuit breaker will go to the half-open state.
```

  This means the next request will go through as a test.
  - If it is successful, the circuit breaker will open.
  - If it fails, the circuit breaker will close again.

Note that requests with `HTTP` status 4XX do not count as failed, because they do not indicate an unhealthy system.

A circuit breaker needs to record all requests across users for a certain time window.

> This state is stored in central circuit breaker instates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This state is stored in central circuit breaker instances.
```

The SAP Cloud SDK offers a retry middleware based on the [async-retry](https://www.npmjs.com/package/async-retry) library.
However, this middleware should be used with caution, because it is often mitigating a problem that should be solved properly.
Also, if something fails consistently, it does not help to press the same button multiple times.
You should consider some rules for adding retries:

- The error should be the exception, not the default.
- The error should happen randomly so a second call has a high likelihood of returning something.
- The source of the error is out of your domain to fix.

You create a retry middleware using the `retry()` function which will add three retries per default.
You can change the number in the following way:

```ts
import { retry } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/resilience';

// Four retries
myApi
  .getAll()
  .middleware([retry(4)])
  .execute(myDestination);
```

The retry middleware uses meaningful default values:

- Number of retires: 3.
- Exponential grow for waiting time using a base of 2.
- Initial waiting time of 1 second.
- Random factor on waiting time between 1 and 2.

> This means the maximum waiting time between the three retries are 2, 4 and 8 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means the maximum waiting times between the three retries are 2, 4, and 8 seconds.
```

The retry middleware should be the last entry in the list of resilience middlewares.
This ensures the retry is executed in all failure cases.

## Remarks on Custom Implementations

One central idea to include resilience using a middleware concept is that you can implement your own logic in case the provided one does not fit your needs.

> Note that the concept of resilience is not trivial, and you should develop and test your implementation carefully:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the concept of resilience is not trivial, and you should develop and test your implementation thoroughly:
```

> - You should keep in mind the order of your middlewares.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You should keep the order of your middlewares in mind.
```

>   A retry should be in the end and a timeout or cache implementation in the very beginning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  A retry should be at the end and a timeout or cache implementation at the very beginning.
```

- You should filter certain errors from a retry and circuit breaker.
  For example a 401 or 403 response will not magically work if you do a retry.

> - If your middleware adds shared state between requests e.g. circuit breaker you must consider isolation between customers in a multi tenant situation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If your middleware adds shared state between requests, e.g. a circuit breaker, you must consider isolation between customers in a multi-tenant situation.
```
